[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
If we're existing
in a construct of parallel
realities, then what does it
take to construct one that
will work better for us?
This conversation
with Darryl Anka
is going to take
us through this,
the explanation for
the Mandela effect
and our co-created future.
So let's not waste
another moment.
I'm just so happy to meet you
after all these years, Darryl.
>>DARRYL ANKA:
Thank you so much.
>>REGINA: We've
never sat together.
I don't know how that
hasn't worked until now.
>>ANKA: This is
the perfect timing.
>>REGINA: It's a perfect timing.
So first of all, it used to
be that five, 10 years ago,
the notion and discussion
of parallel realities
was for sci-fi junkies and
esotericists of the extreme.
That's not the case anymore.
"Popular Mechanics" magazine
is shocking these days.
They talk about consciousness.
So it's made it to
mainstream, but still, people
don't understand it.
>>ANKA: Yeah.
It hasn't really spread
out in the general public.
They have an idea of
what that concept means,
but they don't understand
how integrated that actually
is into our daily experience.
And it doesn't always
mean that they have to,
but it's always kind of
helpful to understand
how these things work if
you want to take it further,
if you want to expand
your consciousness,
if you have any
interest at all in going
into any spiritual
investigation or just
an understanding of the cosmos
in general and how things work.
Parallel realities
will usually come up
at some point in
their investigation.
>>REGINA: So if you can explain
to everyone right now why
it's actually important
that humanity start getting
on the page of understanding
that they are multi-dimensional
and that they are
constantly co-creating
parallel realities, the
implications of this
and why we have to know,
that we've got to know this.
>>ANKA: It's all
about the fact that we
have the power to choose.
That's our greatest power.
And it's about our free will.
And it's about walking the path
that we're really here to walk.
Each soul is
unique, but the path
is different for
everyone because of that.
And it's about how many
choices do we have,
what's relevant for our path.
But we're drawing from
different probabilities,
different parallel
realities to walk that line.
What we consider to be a
single timeline in a sense
is actually composed of choices
from multiple probabilities,
multiple parallel realities.
Different things that
we say we go to path A,
we could experience this.
If we choose path B, we
could experience that.
And every choice we
make is changing reality
every single moment.
Because physical reality isn't
actually a place that we're in.
It's something we're
constructing as we go.
In every single second,
we're redefining who we are,
and we're changing the idea of
what reality we're experiencing.
Now most people will create the
next version of their reality
to be so similar to
the last version,
that they'll just think it's a
smooth, continuous progression,
when in fact, according to the
channeled information that comes
through me, you're actually
changing the entire reality
every single decision you make.
Every change is a total change.
But we can make changes that are
so similar to the last change.
We don't notice that
much of a difference
except that we understand it
as the progression of time.
But that's what the
progression of time is.
It's a side effect of our
consciousness shifting
through billions of parallel
realities every single second.
And as we change
our perspective,
we are literally changing not
only the reality of the moment.
We're changing our history.
We're changing our future.
Both past and future change
when you change the present
because everything
stems from here and now
because now is all
there actually is.
That's where we exist.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ANKA: So it's all about all
the probable parallel reality
choices we can make and
being able to really
step into our self empowerment
to make the choices
we prefer to create the
reality that we prefer.
>>REGINA: So well stated.
And so we were having
a little conversation
off camera about passion.
And I bring this
up because if we're
looking at co-creating this
reality that we're all living
in, that you and I
are here and everyone
in the studio in
this moment, we're
all here right now by some
kind of choice and agreement.
But if you had a
population of citizenry
around the world that were
making their decisions based
on an innate passionate
drive compared to constructs
built by other people, guilt,
society, fear, et cetera.
You'd have a completely
different outcome.
So let's talk about what happens
when we construct from passion.
>>ANKA: Everything
is synchronicity.
Everything is an orchestration.
From my perspective,
there are no accidents.
So no matter what anyone is
choosing, whether it's positive,
or a negative, or
a neutral choice,
it all works together to create
the overall consensus reality
that we experience.
But if everyone started
really understanding our power
to choose from passion, then
things would, in a sense,
all flow in a more positive
direction in general.
It's like Bashar
often says, it's
like puzzle pieces
of a picture puzzle.
We're all made to be a
particular shape of puzzle
piece.
If we are true to
our shape, which
is what following
our passion is all
about, being true to ourselves,
our innate vibration,
our core essential
frequency, we are
the shape we were made to be.
And if we are the shape
we were made to be,
we fit with all the other shapes
and create the whole puzzle
picture.
If we are following something
that is out of alignment
with who we are, then our
shape is a little distorted.
We're not the natural shape that
we originally were made to be.
And therefore, we don't quite
fit with all the other shapes.
So the idea of unity and
harmony is not so much
the idea of everyone
being the same shape,
but it's the total validation
of the unique shape we are.
Because by validating the
uniqueness of every individual
and the differences that are
the positive differences, then
we all fit together and
create the big picture.
So the idea of choosing what is
in alignment with who we really
are is what will
make everything.
Work when everybody is
choosing from that way,
from passion, from who they
really are, from their truth,
then synchronicity becomes this
amazing, magical experience,
where things just
happen in perfect timing
exactly when they need to.
Everything falls in place
because synchronicity
is an organizing
principle in life.
And whatever contains
the most passion, if it's
done first til you
can't do it anymore,
till the excitement
wanes naturally
and you look for the next thing
that contains more passion, then
that synchronicity organizing,
do this first, do this next,
do this next, it's
literally guiding you
on the steps of the path that
will let you be who you really
are and in alignment
with your higher mind,
your non-physical
self, your soul.
In other words,
it's like the soul
is standing on the mountain top,
guiding the physical mind down
in the valley.
The physical mind can't
see around the next corner,
but the higher mind can.
And so when you get messages
from the higher mind,
it comes through us in the
form of what we experience
as passion, creativity.
>>REGINA: Desire.
>>ANKA: Desire,
excitement, attraction.
And when we're willing
to follow that, we're
following the guidance of
the higher mind and saying,
here, you need to turn right.
Here you need to turn left.
When the physical mind
thinks it's in control
and tries to take
over and resist
and say, no, I want to
do this instead and not
follow my passion,
I want to follow
what I think over here is
best, and it's not really
paying attention to what
the higher mind is sending,
that's when we get into
trouble, and we fall into holes
and all sorts of stuff
and go, oh, what happened?
Why didn't that work out?
>>REGINA: And synchronicity
isn't with you.
>>ANKA: Well, synchronicity
is, but there's
negative synchronicity.
>>REGINA: OK.
Negative synchronicity.
OK, that's a good way to put it.
Well, let me just add one
little caveat in here,
and this is personal, but
I think other people have
experienced this as well.
I never wanted to be in media.
I had no interest.
I'd rather knock off an arm
than get in front of a camera.
I was so shy.
I did it on a dare
and got pushed into it
to the point of tears
and thought I wasn't
going to get the job anyway.
Nothing lost.
And it was not easy.
Going into the media
as a young woman, that
was a male-dominated field, had
challenges and pain with it.
It was not my
desire, but my soul
was not going to let me
get away with not doing it.
So even though I didn't like
it, I couldn't say no to it.
It may not be passion, but
something's driving you forward
to a larger picture if
you stay with it, right?
>>ANKA: Yeah.
And we just use
that word passion
to be an umbrella for that
drive, for that energy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Just in case people
are thinking it
has to be a warm and fuzzy,
glowy feeling, not necessarily.
>>ANKA: No.
And even as Bashar
says when we talk
about following your
passion, it doesn't
mean you have to be
jumping up and down
and running around with
your hair on fire either.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ANKA: It can be a
very peaceful, balanced,
kind of meditative
state as well.
So there are different
ways to express that.
So when we use the
word passion, we really
mean it's that
vibration that comes,
that message that comes
from your soul, that
helps you feel like
there is something
very important about
focusing on this action.
There is something
that I'm going
to be doing, by doing this, that
serves my soul's growth, that's
what challenges are for, and
also serves humanity in general.
>>REGINA: You can't say no.
You got to follow it.
>>ANKA: Yeah.
Or you can resist it, but
then all sorts of weird things
start happening.
And sometimes, when
people resist it enough,
they drive themselves into
having things like accidents
because then, they need
that shock to turn them
around and go, OK,
OK, I get the picture.
I need to make a
change, and I need
to go in a different direction.
So the idea is to not have to
wait until something hits you
in the head like a brick
to get the message across.
It's like pay attention
to that drive.
Pay attention to that momentum
and follow that curiosity.
Follow that attraction.
Follow that challenge.
It's there for a reason.
And it will actually wind
up serving you and serving
humanity.
>>REGINA: There's no place
I'd rather be than right here
at this moment and--
>>ANKA: Exactly, and
here you are, yeah.
>>REGINA: Painful as it
was in the beginning.
So let me just ask you
a question, backing up
quite a bit in your
own life, because it's
the first time I've had
here, though many people here
are already familiar with
your work for decades.
What was the thing
that drove you
into this in the very beginning?
>>ANKA: I had, back in 1973, two
broad daylight UFO sightings.
Very close.
And I've always heard,
OK, there are UFOs.
But when you see something
like that physically in front
of your face, only
100 feet away,
and you have witnesses
with you, and you go, OK,
what I was told about reality
is not what reality is.
There is something going
on here behind the scenes,
and I need to
figure out what that
is because when you see
something like that,
it changes you viscerally.
Because again, your reality
just simply comes apart,
and you go, OK,
what's going on here?
What is this?
And so that started
me investigating
all of those kinds of things.
And 10 years after the sighting,
I was introduced to a channel
who was doing sessions
because at that point,
I had come across
other books like UFOs,
and then psychic
functioning, and ESP,
and channeling and all sorts,
specifically the Jane Roberts
"Seth Material."
So I understood what
that was all about.
And I went to listen
to this channel,
and I thought the
information is very helpful.
It's very insightful.
And then eventually,
the entity offered
to teach a channeling class.
And I said, well, I
didn't think that was
something that could be taught.
I just thought it was sort of
happened to you out of the blue.
Because that was the story
of most channels back then.
>>REGINA: True.
>>ANKA: They would just suddenly
pass out, and start talking,
and wake up and not
know what they had said.
>>REGINA: '80s was really
rich and abundant with that.
>>ANKA: Yeah.
And each generation of
channels has become, in a way,
more and more conscious because
they're choosing it consciously
and able to bring it
through more consciously.
So I see that as an evolution
in the pattern of channeling.
But it was during the class
I went into not thinking,
I'm going to become a channel.
I just wanted to understand
how channeling could be
taught as part of my research.
But we were given guided
meditations over a 12-week
course to get us in
touch with whatever.
We didn't have to
channel an entity.
It was like getting in
touch with your creativity
or whatever you wanted to
do with that state of being.
But halfway through
the course, when
we were in the middle
of a meditation,
being guided by the
entity, I received
what I can only describe
as a telepathic connection
from Bashar.
And in that instant,
inside my head,
a memory came back of
having made an agreement
to do this before this life.
I understood the UFO had been
shown to me on purpose by him
to get me to start
doing the research.
I understood that
now was the time
to move forward with
this if I still wanted
to move forward with this.
It was still
offered as a choice.
But I understood enough to
know that if I did go forward,
it would be something
that would expand my life.
All of this was happening
with an image of his face
in my mind in a split second.
Now I didn't know if
I was hallucinating,
if this was a side
effect of the meditation.
But the second this
happened, because I
hadn't said anything, the entity
stopped talking to the class
and turned to me
and said, there's
an entity here for you right
now if you're ready to begin.
And I opened my eyes,
and I looked behind me,
and one of my classmates
somehow had also
picked up on the image
of Bashar's face, I saw.
And she was sketching
it on a piece of paper.
So I said, OK, I've got
two outside validations.
This is not my imagination.
There's something
happening here.
So I said, OK, let's see
where this is going to go.
So I began to practice
more in the class.
I got good enough,
quickly enough
that the teacher offered
to allow me to co-channel
the next class with him.
>>REGINA: Did this make
you nervous at all?
>>ANKA: No, it didn't,
because, again, by that time,
I understood--
>>REGINA: You knew you
were there for this.
>>ANKA: --what
this was all about.
And so I was just mostly
curious and fascinated that this
was happening.
I mean, it was strange, it
was unusual, it was new,
and it was definitely
challenging.
>>REGINA: But it was destined.
>>ANKA: But I just
figured I'm going
to have to see where this goes.
Because if this is
what's happening to me,
there's a reason for it.
I knew that much.
And so let's see where
it takes me, right?
And even before I
knew about the idea
from Bashar of
following your passion,
I have always instinctively
in my life really only done
what I was excited to do,
and it's always supported me.
Always.
That's another lesson I often
want to share with people,
is when you follow
your passion, it
will support you if
you don't resist it.
So it always has worked for me.
I mean, I've been doing
this for 40 years.
There has never been a time
when it hasn't supported me.
And following my
passion in other areas,
hasn't ever been a time
when it hasn't supported me.
So that's a big lesson to learn.
>>REGINA: It's a big one.
And the other thing we didn't
talk about a little bit ago
on the subject of passion
that you just brought up
was you understood that you
had an agreement before you
were incarnated to do
this thing with Bashar.
And when we were
talking off camera,
the notion that these agreements
that our soul has made
for an incarnation comes through
the whispering of our soul
to the subject of passion
and yes, now, do it, do it.
It's coming through,
but that agreement
was made before
incarnation often times.
>>ANKA: Yes.
And it was made from the
free will of the spirit.
>>REGINA: Of the soul, yes.
>>ANKA: Of the soul.
And then that creates a path
that we could euphemistically
say that's the destiny
of the physical mind.
But within that destiny chosen
by the free will of the soul,
you still have a
lot of free will
as a physical mind to decide how
you're going to walk that path.
Because you can face
your challenges, or you
can shy away from them.
You can walk down that path
happy, sad, left, right,
crawl, fly, run, walk, whatever.
That's up to you
as how to do that.
But you will walk
down that path.
So we could say that the
free will of the soul
creates the destiny
of the physical mind,
but the physical mind
still has a lot of leeway
and a lot of free will on that
path as how to experience it.
And since the soul is eternal,
in a sense, if for some reason,
you resist it enough
that you don't actually
complete what you agreed to
complete, well, you're eternal
and you're infinite.
>>REGINA: That's all right.
You'll have another shot at it.
>>ANKA: You'll
have another shot.
>>REGINA: That's really truly--
>>ANKA: You will always have a
second, and third, and fourth,
and fifth, and sixth chance.
>>REGINA: There's
an infinite amount
of grace alongside all of this.
>>ANKA: Exactly.
Exactly.
So yeah.
So I followed that
path, saw where it went.
Somebody came along
doing a doctoral paper
on the connection between
channeling and psychology,
and she needed
subjects to study.
I became one of her
subjects, channeling
to her friends at her house
while she wrote her notes.
And that started to just
spread word of mouth.
And so I found myself in
the years that followed,
being invited to go
to different cities,
invited to go to
different countries,
and here I am 40 years later.
>>REGINA: And I'm
grateful for that.
Thank you.
>>ANKA: So am I.
>>REGINA: So let's
get into some of what
seems the high
strangeness of reality.
And one of them is called
the Mandela effect.
And so let's look at
that because that's still
very intriguing.
I know in quantum physics,
a lot of scientists
are still trying
to figure it out,
but you've given very
elegant explanations
of what this is about.
So simply put, to
me, one of the most--
there are many,
many obvious ones,
but one that got me because
I knew I'd seen it was
in literature, the book called
"A Portrait of Dorian Gray,"
which, of course, doesn't
exist, never exists.
You can't find it.
But I got it to blip up on
the internet for a second.
I saw it, and then
it disappeared again
into "A Picture of Dorian Gray,"
which now you would never,
even the old copies of it say.
So let's talk about
what's going on there?
I'm not crazy.
Other English
majors aren't crazy.
>>ANKA: Now, I do have
to say there is a caveat.
Yes, it's possible
that sometimes the idea
of what appears to
be the Mandela effect
is simply a faulty memory.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I think they
acknowledge that.
>>ANKA: That can happen.
So not everything is
the Mandela effect.
But my understanding
is, as we have now,
as a society, more
and more individuals
decided that they're going
to explore consciousness.
They're going to expand their
idea of what reality is.
They're going to
connect more to spirit.
When we decide to
go down that path,
in expanding our consciousness,
our senses start to expand.
We start to be able to
perceive things that
were heretofore invisible,
like parallel realities.
Each parallel reality has
its own distinct vibration.
Just like a program on a TV
set, you are tuned to a channel,
and you're watching
that program.
Now you know other programs
are playing at the same time,
but you're only getting the
one that you are tuned to.
So that's been our
experience in the past.
We're getting one
program that we're
tuned to because that's the
consensus belief system.
This is reality, and
there isn't anything else.
But when you start
expanding, it's
kind of like having multiple
screens on your TV set.
And suddenly, you are
watching this program,
but you can also
glimpse that one
it's bleeding into
because you're
expanding your field of
vision, your consciousness
field of vision.
And so you're starting
to pick up on the fact
that there are other probable
realities where maybe here, you
went one way, but in the other
one, you went the other way.
So history is different.
But we're at that
point where we are just
beginning to see the overlap,
just beginning to experience
the bleed-through.
So we can still retain
perception of both programs
because we're expanding.
And we're not just
picking one or the other.
We're just experiencing
the idea that there
is more than one probable
outcome for a reality.
And because we start
picking up on this,
and maybe we have more of an
affinity for that outcome,
we start saying, oh, that is the
history that I believe is true.
Whereas another person
goes, no, no, no,
I remember history differently.
This is what happened.
Not that.
Both people can be right because
they're actually picking up
on completely different
parallel reality histories
because we now have the
ability for our consciousness
to have that
multi-dimensional perception.
So the Mandela effect to me
is part of our consciousness
expansion, where we realize
that we are plucking
from different
parallel realities
to decide what our path is.
We're becoming aware of how
we're creating our reality.
What we consider to
be a single timeline
is actually made of
multiple timelines,
multiple parallel realities.
But with our concept
of continuity,
that one thing has
to follow another,
we may be jumping all
over the place in terms
of this parallel reality piece
and this parallel reality
outcome, but putting
it all together
in a linear continuity
that makes sense for us
in physical reality.
>>REGINA: So that brings me down
to the nuts and bolts of it.
So you have a team of
ad execs, and they're
deciding whether to call
it Jif or Jiffy Peanut
Butter or Stouffer's Stovetop
or the famous ones, Berenstein
or Berenstain Bears.
So you have a
discussion going on as
to whether we should go
this direction or that.
Are people simply
tagging on to a timeline
where it wasn't fully
fixed yet, or it was simply
an option that was
put into motion where
they may have ultimately
chosen the other one.
How do you get on these
strange, prosaic timelines
about peanut butter
and stovetop stuffing?
>>ANKA: Well, again,
the consensus reality,
whether someone individually is
aware of what's going on or not,
they'll still be a part
of the consensus that
is allowing for different
probable outcomes.
And so when they're in a
creative mode, when they're
open to the idea of
looking for a path,
they might simply pick up
on, well, I don't know.
This feels more right
for some reason,
and somebody may
disagree with it,
or they may go along with it.
But I think those options are
opening up to different people,
whether they realize it or not.
And if they're in any
kind of a creative mode
where they're willing to
scan for possibilities,
they're just going
to pick up on that.
And they're going to choose one
way or another, that for that,
let's say, subgroup in the
consensus, that mini consensus
reality, is for
some reason the path
that they feel
they need to walk.
>>REGINA: It had to have
had some stickiness though,
just for anyone to
magnetize to that reality.
>>ANKA: Well, yeah, because
it's all about resonance.
It's all about vibration.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So maybe it's just
if they've talked
to-- so say you have a team,
and they're talking and debating
these two options.
Perhaps it's been debated
long enough that there's
a little stickiness, a little
thought form substance to it
that you could
have either memory.
>>ANKA: Oh, absolutely, you can.
Yeah, if that serves you to
have that right, you will.
Otherwise, you'll just
take one path or the other
and never know the
difference, that there
could have been another path.
But it just depends on the
group that's doing that.
And what is the ultimate path
that they need to walk together?
If they need to maintain
the idea that there's
more than one outcome and keep
that awareness in their group,
then that's what works
for them in the path
that they're walking.
Others will simply
pick one or the other,
and they'll go that
way, and that's it.
And they'll never know
that they could have been.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I just find it crazy
in that, I mean, I
can understand it on all of
the bigger issues of life
that we debate.
But on all these silly little,
seemingly silly little issues--
>>ANKA: But that's what I mean.
It's part of the consensus.
>>REGINA: It doesn't
matter consensus.
It's part of the
consensus, yeah.
>>ANKA: That you
now have the ability
to do that if that
works for you.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So you brought this up a
moment ago, a few minutes ago,
talking about once you
change your thought process
or you make a decision
in the moment,
you've not just changed
your reality right now,
your future, even if just
to a minor extent, but
you've changed your past.
People are intrigued
by this because you
do hear people saying, if I
can just do the right thing,
maybe I can heal my
family's ancestry.
So let's talk about that.
>>ANKA: The idea
stems from the notion
that now is all there is
when you ask what time is it.
Well, it doesn't
matter what you say.
It's always now.
So now is where
everything happens.
Now is where
everything is created.
From a linear space
time perspective,
if you change what you
are now, because we
need the sense of continuity
of what led up to this
and where this is
going, any time
you change the
definition of what
now is, you are changing the
now, the actual definition
of the now.
And by changing the definition
of the now, in order to make
sense of how this
now happened, you
have to create a path that makes
sense for that now to exist.
So that's why the path changes
when you change the present.
Because in linear perspective,
from a linear space time
reality, you have to have
something that led to this.
For us, it's very rare
that we can just go,
we can just have this
happen, and there's
no connection to
anything because we
are experiencing a physical,
linear, space time reality.
So it's not only
changing the future path
when you change the present.
It has to change the past as
well for the now to make sense,
for it to make sense as
to how it got this way.
Now the profound power
in understanding that,
and you use the example of,
well, maybe I can heal my past.
And I know this is a big step
for people's consciousness
in some ways because
of what they're used to
and thinking about causality.
And it's like, well,
this caused this.
This has to happen first
for this to happen.
The truth is that
when you really
understand that changing the
present changes the past,
then it's not even
an issue of let's say
you had an addiction
to whatever cigarettes.
And you really
change your present
sufficiently enough that the
addiction is not there anymore.
You don't have the
urge anymore to smoke.
It's not that you have learned
how to let go of the addiction.
The new person you are that has
no urge never had an addiction.
The past of a person who
doesn't have an addiction--
>>REGINA: Doesn't have
that pattern in its past.
>>ANKA: It doesn't
have that pattern.
>>REGINA: So it's not
just a perception.
You're saying that we actually
change reality itself rather
than our perception of reality.
>>ANKA: Yes.
Because our perception of
reality is what reality is.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's what I was trying to say.
>>ANKA: Because physical
reality isn't real.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's our perception.
>>ANKA: It's happening
within our consciousness.
This, as solid as it
feels, is happening
within our consciousness.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ANKA: Now I think
a lot of leading edge
quantum physicists are
beginning to get this idea.
I know that a lot of them
balk at the concept of mixing
metaphysical ideas with physics,
but whether they like it or not,
I believe that's
where it's going,
and they're going to start
understanding that they
can actually have a
sufficient explanation
of metaphysical
concepts that satisfies
their understanding of physics
when they just simply turn
the corner a little bit and
allow for consciousness to be
involved in their
equations instead of trying
to extricate it.
Because this is all happening
within our consciousness,
no matter how solid it seems.
>>REGINA: I think Tom Campbell,
the physicist Tom Campbell did
a beautiful job.
He wrote a book quite a
while ago, 10, 15 years ago,
called "My Big TOE
(Theory Of Everything)."
And essentially, he's
doing exactly that.
He's saying, if you look
at this on an atomic level,
there's nothing there.
>>ANKA: There's
nothing there, yeah.
>>REGINA: And that
this is a collectively
agreed upon rendering,
which when you think of it
in video terms, when a process
is happening where you're
rendering the final result
of pixels coming together,
rendering of reality,
and I thought
that was one of the most elegant
explanations from a physicist
ever.
>>ANKA: Right.
We rendering in real time
every moment, every moment.
This moment, this moment,
this moment, we are rendering.
And it's what we define
that render as that gives us
what we experience.
So we have the free will
to completely redefine
what this next moment is,
and that changes our past.
It changes everything.
It completely unlocks
us from thinking
that we're controlled
by the past,
that we have to keep repeating
the same thing over and over.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to bring up
is people who, there are many,
many, many, many huge percentage
of the population who are
kind of living in their past.
>>ANKA: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Living past
projections, beliefs, fears.
And the story is all built
on what they remember,
that they think they
remember of their past.
What does this do to
stunt the joy that could
be happening in a human's life.
>>ANKA: Because the
thing of it is they're
not actually living in the past.
They're recreating--
>>REGINA: The past
by the moment.
>>ANKA: Every moment,
in the present.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ANKA: But they're not
learning the lessons from it.
They're not understanding how
they can use that to serve them,
to move ahead, to
move on from it.
They're just sort of
wallowing in the same thing.
It's a very sort of victimhood,
poor me kind of mentality.
Because sometimes,
the way people
are given ideas,
given belief systems,
is if they don't understand that
they can attract what they need
in any other way, they
can take the victim route
because it's kind of
like, well, poor me.
Give me the attention I need,
but you're giving it to me
as a victim because
I can't imagine
how you would give it to me
as a self-empowered being.
So they use the victimhood
to get attention,
to make themselves feel
like they're there,
like they're noticed, they're
loved, they're cared for.
But that can happen from
a very different position.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes, indeed.
>>ANKA: And they have to
learn that lesson, that
having had that
experience, recreating
that more negative
way of doing it is not
something that has to keep
being perpetuated by them.
It's there to let
them, look, if you
don't prefer this
when you really
get down deep inside yourself
and you understand this is not
really the way you want to
continue to be or to live, then
understand that this is being
given to you to show you
what you don't prefer, so
that by contrast, you can
understand what you do prefer.
Now the hitch is
that in our society,
they're not necessarily
taught how to do it in a way
that they prefer.
They don't have the tool kit.
That's what I like about
Bashar's information.
He is a being that understands
we have physical reality
experience.
We need physical tools that
make a physical difference
in our physical reality.
And so he gives
it to us literally
as an instruction manual.
It's just like an
instruction manual
that you would use to
operate a piece of machinery.
If you follow the
instructions, the machine
will work as advertised
to your advantage.
If you don't, the
machine may work,
but you could injure
yourself because it's not
working to your advantage.
So he says, look, here
are the simple steps.
Just follow them,
and you will find
that when you apply
this information,
everything will start
falling into place
because that's the
way it is built to be.
But if you don't
have that tool kit,
if you don't have that
understanding of how you're
already creating your reality
in the negative sense,
then you don't understand
how to change that
into creating your reality
in the positive sense.
You're just doing it blindly.
It's just like trying to
get the parts of a machine
to fit together, and you don't
have any instruction manual.
You don't know what goes where.
You don't know where
the screws fit.
And you're left with
five bolts left over,
and you go, where do those go?
>>REGINA: Like when I
assembled a bicycle for my son.
>>ANKA: Exactly.
But he gives us
exactly those steps.
And every single time you
follow them, and I've had this.
And it's one of the
reasons why I continue
to do the channelings, because
people keep coming up and go,
you know what?
It took me a while to get
it, but when I finally
understood how to use the
instruction manual, the formula,
he calls it precisely, cleanly,
with not adding anything, not
taking anything away.
Full understanding, and I really
applied it, everything changed.
My life got better.
Everything improved.
It got more creative, it got
more loving, more positive.
So the feedback that I get from
people that know how to apply it
keeps me doing this because I
know it's making a difference.
>>REGINA: It's so important.
Absolutely.
>>ANKA: It's making
a difference.
>>REGINA: And we need to have
some compassion for each other
too.
>>ANKA: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: When we're trying to
talk about our history together,
our shared, quote,
shared history,
our remembered
history, when someone's
saying that is not what
happened, what happened is this.
This is happening all over the
world in every venue possible,
from home to Capitol Hill.
Because we are having
different remembrances of what
happened, depending on what our
perception was at that time.
>>ANKA: And that's OK
because they can all be real,
but that's what opens us up to
the idea of, hey, you know what.
If these are all
real histories, what
does that say about the
nature of existence?
And then it leads
you into the idea
that there are multiverses,
parallel realities,
different paths that
people can take,
but they all exist
within existence.
They're all valid paths.
And we can learn different
things from the fact
that somebody may remember a
different history than someone
else.
We can look at that and
go, this is fascinating.
Why is this happening?
>>REGINA: So what's
the touchstone then
because a lot of people hear
this that aren't already there
but want to go there
and are thinking,
wow, that's way
too fluid for me.
What's real anyway?
I mean, this whole thing.
>>ANKA: Exactly.
What's real?
>>REGINA: What's real anyway?
And so what is the touchstone as
a soul inhabiting a human body
to play this game correctly?
>>ANKA: OK.
I'm going to reverse that
a little bit because that's
the habit we're in because we
come from physical linear space
time thinking.
We don't have a soul.
Our body does not have a soul.
Our soul--
>>REGINA: Has a body.
Yes.
>>ANKA: OK.
The soul is where we are.
It's where we are right now.
Non-physical reality
is our natural state.
We never leave it.
We're there right now.
We're pretending that we're not.
So your soul, my soul are
having this conversation
on a different level, but
we're creating the illusion
that we have somehow
separated from spirit
and have these little nuggets
we call physical personalities.
And we're communicating through
those physical personalities.
But really, our souls are
communicating right now,
and we're having this shared
experience that, yes, we agree,
we're in a physical reality.
We're creating this illusion
for our own purposes,
to discover something
new about ourselves
from a different perspective,
to aid in our soul's growth,
in having these
different experiences,
different perspectives,
different points of view.
But we have to remember,
and this is the touchstone,
we have to remember that
it all starts there.
And it filters down to
here, to whatever degree
we believe we need
it to so in order
to have this process, this
discovery process of space,
and time, and change.
Because remember, in a timeless
state, nothing changes.
So the only way
you can experience
the creation of change,
the process of change,
discovering something
new is to forget
who you were as this
bigger soul and start
trying to remember who you
are through this experience
of discovery and
revelation of yourself.
And then that's how
the soul is growing.
Because the structure of
existence itself never changes.
It is what it is.
It's our perspective of
it, our experience of it,
our point of view
of it that changes.
And that's how
creation expands, is
through these experiences,
these experiences of discovery,
and sharing, and
exchanging, ideas
and saying, I can look
at reality this way,
and that's just as real as
looking at reality that way.
Which do we prefer?
What serves us better?
Can we come to any kind
of a consensus agreement
about where we want to go,
what we want to experience,
why we're choosing
to be here, and what
we're learning from this about
ourselves and about creation?
>>REGINA: Well, this
is-- thank you for that.
Beautiful explanation.
And this is why I'm particularly
perturbed these days because
of one particular
book, but I see
that there are a few out
there now on the subject.
One of them is by a
professor out of Stanford
in neurosciences, and his
book is called "Determine,
The Science of Life
with No Free Will."
Now why are these
popping up now?
This is, to me, it really
kind of ticks me off
because essentially,
do what you want.
He murdered someone because he's
programmed to murder someone.
Nothing he could have
done to avoid it.
>>ANKA: Yeah.
So in a sense,
what he's saying is
he was programmed
to write that book
because he has no free will.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And he'll say that.
It was a revelation
at the age of 13
that there is nothing
else except whatever
your neurochemical
responses are,
that you were born
with, conditioned into,
and everything you do
has been chosen already.
>>ANKA: The thing of it is,
is that materialistic argument
is self-canceling.
And that's what
they don't see yet.
Because if it's true that
there is absolutely no free
will and the idea of
whatever it is you do
is just sort of a random
act with no reason, rhyme,
or anything, why should
we listen to your opinion?
Your opinion means nothing.
>>REGINA: Do you know all
the press picked his book up?
All the major
press picked it up.
You don't see that on the
subject of you have free will.
You are creating your reality.
They don't pick that up except
for maybe Popular Mechanics.
>>ANKA: Well, it's
radical in a sense.
But the idea is people
are groping for something
to explain things to them.
And the idea that
everything is predestined
may seem to some
people like, OK, then I
can understand how things
go from here to there.
It makes life understandable
to them on that level.
But again, the idea of a
total materialist random thing
with no rhyme or reason
behind it and no free will
is self-canceling.
Because if it is true,
then why should anybody
listen to any opinion--
>>REGINA: Why incarnate?
>>ANKA: Well, it's
not even that.
I just mean in physical
reality, if you're
predestined to say x, then
you're just predestined
to say x, and it has absolutely
no meaning to it whatsoever.
>>REGINA: You're programmed.
>>ANKA: Therefore,
why should we see--
That's what I'm saying it's
self-canceling in the sense
of saying we have no free will.
But if you had no free will
to say that, why should
I believe that we
have no free will?
Because you were
programmed to say that.
And therefore, I have no way of
knowing that what you're saying
means anything at all.
Your opinion doesn't
matter because it
didn't come from a
reasoned idea of choice
that you made to decide that
this was something you wanted
to say, which then has meaning
to it from your perspective
about what life can be like.
So if you're saying that you
had no choice but to do that,
then there's no reason for
me to believe you or listen
to you because it
doesn't mean anything.
>>REGINA: Well, it was
certainly sexy enough
that the media industry
enjoyed picking up on that.
>>ANKA: But then that
doesn't mean anything either
according to him.
>>REGINA: It does not.
>>ANKA: And yet I'm sure he's
taking advantage of that.
>>REGINA: Yes, he
is, for book sales.
It's selling.
>>ANKA: Exactly.
And I suppose that
was predestined too.
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>ANKA: But again,
there's no meaning to it
because it was predestined.
So I don't have to
listen to the opinion
because it's self-canceling.
>>REGINA: It's a very
good way to put it.
So Cynthia Sue Larson,
who you may know of,
I don't know, but she deals a
lot with the Mandela effect.
She's in the world of science.
There's some things she says
that I think is actually
really sweet and wonderful
that goes with what you say,
and maybe you can
just expand on it.
She says, when I wake up,
I ask myself each day,
how good can it get in her
creative process of life?
>>ANKA: It can become ecstatic.
Every moment can be an ecstatic
explosion of synchronicity.
You just have to
give way to that.
Now, will there be challenges?
Absolutely.
But why define a challenge
in a negative way?
That's what helps us grow.
>>ANKA: So what I
think really needs
to come out of people to face
those challenges is curiosity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ANKA: Oh.
Why did that happen?
What's that going to
lead me to discover?
What am I going to find out
by walking down that path
or facing this challenge?
Who knows?
They need more of that
curiosity to follow that path.
>>REGINA: Even the stuff
that's heavy and challenging.
>>ANKA: But see,
the thing of it is,
is a lot of that doesn't really
get heavy unless they resist it,
unless they define
it as something
that's going to be heavy.
>>REGINA: Or unless
they have self judgment
of what they'll discover.
>>ANKA: But that's resistance.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That is part of resistance.
>>ANKA: So according
to Bashar, pain
is resistance to
the natural self.
That's what all pain is from.
So if you have that
definition that starts it out
as this is going to be a slog,
this is going to be difficult,
then that's the way you're
going to experience it,
because you've
defined it that way.
Because remember,
you're in control
of how you experience things.
Again, that's your free will.
So the universe doesn't
have a mind of its own.
You're in charge.
The universe is
unconditionally supportive.
Unconditionally.
So if you say this is
going to be difficult,
the universe says, OK.
It's going to be difficult. I
will support you in that belief.
If you say, this
is going to be fun,
the universe is also going to
say, OK, it's going to be fun,
and I will support
you in that belief.
We don't understand
that we're the ones that
give meaning to life.
Life by itself, I don't
mean this in a negative way,
is meaningless.
It doesn't have built in
meaning is what that means.
So we decide what
the meaning is,
and the meaning we give it
determines how we experience it,
and that should be the proof
of free will right there,
is if you decide that something
is going to be experienced
negatively, absolutely.
That's the way you're
going to experience it.
But if you change
your mind and say,
you know what, I'd
rather experience it
this way, that's the
way you will suddenly
start to experience it.
The fact that you can switch
back and forth at will.
I'm negative now.
I'm positive now.
I'm neutral.
I'm negative now.
The fact that you
have that broad range.
If you want to say that's all
predetermined, well, then fine
because you're still
having that kind
of an experience of flexibility
within your predetermination.
So it might as
well be free will.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ANKA: But the idea really
is do have the choice
to go one way or the other or
stay in balance in the center,
knowing you can always
choose the negative
if you want because it's
always going to be there,
but I prefer this.
And that's what you're
going to experience.
So challenges, yes.
Let's do it because
this could be fun.
I'm curious to find out
where this is leading.
If I didn't say that in
the channeling class,
I wouldn't be here
today, and I wouldn't
have had all these experiences.
I wouldn't have been meeting
these interesting people
like yourself who are doing
these things that allow
this information to spread.
I wouldn't have had
the life that I've had.
I could have chosen
something else,
but I absolutely know that
if it wasn't representative
of my passion, I would not
be a happy camper today.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
It seems like we just started,
but we're already out of time.
Any final thoughts we must
get in before we say goodbye?
>>ANKA: It's so
important to understand
that what we're describing
again as passion, as curiosity,
as attraction, is the message
from your soul telling you,
look, this is who you are.
This is your next step.
It's doing its
best to guide you.
You have the free
will to ignore it.
But if you do, you
do so at your peril
because your physical
mind is not designed
to control those things.
It's not designed to
know what will happen.
It's designed to know
what's happening.
It's what gives you the ability
to have a physical experience.
That's its job.
It should not be
given any other job
other than to allow
you to experience
what it is that's happening.
The higher mind is
the guiding principle.
This is what's telling you.
This is your path.
Remember who you are.
Things will flow.
We all have a current in
the ocean of creation.
If we just flow
with our current,
our current knows exactly
where we need to go.
Stop swimming upstream.
You'll have a much happier life.
>>REGINA: OK.
On that note, thank
you so much, Darryl,
and I hope to see
you here again.
>>ANKA: Thank you, Regina.
This has been a pleasure.
>>REGINA: If you'd like
to spend days going down
such intriguing and
relevant rabbit holes,
you can go to bashar.org.
Darryl has dedicated his life to
bringing this knowledge forward
and deserves our deep gratitude.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.